For this session, we're gonna talk about
something that well, we all need to do
when it comes to our apps, and
that's making it look better, right?
Applying design, applying CSS, because,
yes, does this work functionally?
Yes, technically it does.
But to be totally honest,
it could use some help.
And so, we're not gonna do like
a full blown CSS course, but
I do wanna just talk a little bit about
how basically some best practices for
approaching styling within Vue,
next and how you might do those things.
So first thing first, let's talk
about a popular way of managing this.
So let's say, for instance, we wanted our
to do list to be in two different columns.
That's what we wanted to do.
Then what we can do is we can go ahead
in here and we can take a look at our
styles here and we could go, okay,
well let's see the ul here is like this.
So what if we did something like, okay, so
first we'll start by
opening the style block.
So if you haven't used single
file components before,
this is kind of what
makes them a bit unique.
Is that it contains the scripts,
the JavaScript, the HTML, and
the CSS all in one file so
that it's encapsulated and
then your concerns are basically
all related together.
So that when you delete the file,
it's impacting that file specifically.
So in this case, what we can do
is let's call this todo list,
let's call it the class.
So that's really what this is,
it's the todo list.
And so we do todo lists and
then let's say it has display,
let's say grid and
then grid-template-columns.
We'll say we'll repeat it twice, and each
column will be one fraction of the width.
That's what that CSS means.
So we go ahead now and
check it out and refresh.
Okay, perfect.
Fetch, wallah.
Okay, so
we see that we have our two columns.
Now, here's the thing that
some people might not know,
is that when you use
the style block like this,
what you're actually defining is
you're defining global styles.
So if you look inside of our app you'll
see here that we have
here ul class todo list.
And then, you'll notice that todo list
it's just a generic style block basically
found inside of the head.
So in other words, when it comes
to CSS and specificity this could
theoretically impact other components on
the page should they share the same name.
So how might we get around this?
Well, of course, you can certainly try
naming things uniquely yourself and
hopefully no one collides
with your CSS styles.
But anyone who's done that at scale can
tell you it's basically impossible to do
because, eventually developers start
naming things a bit shorter on the short
side, and they wanna do it what makes most
sense in a component, and then collisions
happens because the cascade can be
hard to predict, and things blow up.
So what can we do instead?
Well, instead of using a global CSS, most
of you might have heard about scoped CSS.
So, what is scoped CSS?
Well, by adding the scope to
attribute to your CSS styles,
we get something pretty interesting here.
You'll notice that one, when I open this,
it still looks like the two columns, but
we'll notice something
pretty different though.
And that is, that when you
look at the styles over here,
let me pump this up a little bit so
you read that a little bit easier.
You will notice that our todo list now
is appended with an attribute selector.
More meaningfully it is
appended with this custom hash,
data-v-938b838b0, basically
it is randomly generated.
And that corresponds with
this element over here that
also has that attribute data-v-938b83b0.
And so this is a pretty cool way of
actually starting to scope things a little
bit because what it does is essentially
add a little bit of specificity to
your code.
And for the most part,
this saves people most of the headache
because it feels pretty native, but
there's a third approach that I
do wanna make people aware of.
And that is the fact that,
in the event that you wanna
actually name it something generic.
Let's say we wanted to name
something like lists, right?
Lists is something that especially if
you're importing a third party library,
that could blow up all
sorts of different ways.
But for the sake of like, not having to
rely on generating really really long
names, which was very popular,
well, still popular, right?
It's known as BEM.
If you haven't heard of it,
you can look that up.
BEM CSS, where you name the components or
it would be like,
todo lists underscore like list
underscore item, like it was long and
it's kind of hard to read and cumbersome.
And so we have built tools,
can we make this easier for ourselves?
And the answer is yes you can.
And the way you do that is one,
you start by searching scope for
the module attribute.
But that's not just it.
This is the part where it gets
a little bit controversial.
What we gonna do is we gonna bind the
class that we wanna use and we're gonna
use the dollar signs style and then we're
gonna basically tack on the class name.
So as you can see style.list, this maps to
here and the style object basically maps
to a JavaScript object of whatever CSS
you've written inside of your style block.
Now you're like okay, that's weird syntax,
what do I get for that?
All right, that's a good question.
So let's go ahead and
fetch the data again, looks good.
What's the difference?
The difference is you'll notice
that Vue has gone ahead and
generated a completely new class name for
you.
And it's got a custom hash and
everything, which means yes,
theoretically there is a chance, right,
that you could generate the same hash.
But I think we know
statistically speaking,
that's probably not going to happen.
And so more importantly, we're not gonna
get into the configuration and stuff, but
you can actually even like prepend the
generated class name with the component
that it's coming from because I'm a big
fan of having CSS class names that you can
actually debug.
Because I know that some frameworks and
some approaches will just do a random hash
period, right, never conflicts basically.
But then the problem is when you look at
it you're gonna be like there's a bug,
I don't know where this is coming from.
And I mean debugging is really
where the value comes out of it.
Like it's nice to think of optimizations
and it can be only five letters.
That's a random hash.
That's nice.
But when things break, I need the tools
to help me debug not the other way
around should make it harder for me.
So at the bare minimum,
you can see here it's underscore list.
So at the bare minimum if I were looking
for my code base I can look for .list.
And that does narrow it down a bit.
But again I would recommend like if you're
gonna configure it a little bit more maybe
prepend it with a component
name automatically so
you know which file to look at.
Again, those are just suggestions and
preferences.
But, the main thing to know about styles
is that this syntax is a little bit
awkward for people, because especially
when you start tagging on multiple ones
then you have the array syntax as well so
you'd be like style list.
And then it feels a little awkward to
people like that's like JavaScript.
It's not really like a native anymore.
And so my recommendation for this is that
use it in a way that like when you know
you need to escape you know
the styles need to live in isolation.
It is worth the trade off here's the
headache you save by being able to write
native CSS in here, which I really
think is where it's most important
that's where you get most of
your benefits and then you can
deal with a couple of kind of ugly V
bind classes with dollar symbol styles.
>> What is your opinion about
using Tailwind CSS with Vue?
>> Okay, so the question here is around
Tailwind CSS, but I think more important
let's talk more about utility CSS,
because that's really the paradigm shift.
So I won't comment on Tailwind
specifically just more as a paradigm.
And so I guess let me just show the one
that's another open source one that's
actually really popular in
the Vue community called,
I think it's called no, wait.
Andu utility CSS.
Yeah, I think we know CSS as an example.
But basically what it's known to do is,
you'll see an example.
Yeah, okay, here are some examples here.
For those who've never used libraries
like this before what they essentially
allow you to do is pen a bunch of
mini classes to, like an element and
those styles add up to something bigger.
And so for a lot of people this
provides a lot of standardization.
Again, any tools and
libraries you choose will have trade
offs because on the other hand it does
mean that your HTML gets bloated with a
ton of different styles, like class names.
And so one way you can get around that if
you are using that you wanna still use
something like Tailwind or like UnoCSS,
is that you can basically use I think post
CSS to actually pre process all
those things under a class name so
that you're leveraging
the design system to keep
that consistency while also actually
having cleaner CSS class names.
And so I will say from
a personal opinion perspective,
I actually really like writing CSS.
And so usually libraries like Tailwind and
that kind of stuff they're good for
teams that you can't really ensure
who's writing the CSS and so
you want just consistency to
be applied across the board.
And so design systems like that can be
incredibly powerful in that regard.
But just remember the trade offs of having
to deal with all that configuration
versus just knowing CSS and
just be able to write it yourself.
Again, depending on your team and
your skill that's how I would
choose to basically optimize for
which kind of CSS way you apply.